Eric Theodore Cartman is a character from the TV series South Park, one of the four main characters, primary school students in the American town of South Park. Almost everyone, except for Liane Cartman's mother, Jimmy, Butters and elementary school workers, calls him by his last name, and his mother affectionately calls him "Piglet." obese ten-year-old child; he treats everyone around him badly. The prototypes of this hero were: German pilot-ace Erich Hartmann, character of the famous sitcom Archie Bunker, and also a school friend of Trey Parker named Matt Karpman [1]. \ NKartman hates almost everyone, especially hippies and Jews. Likes to humiliate his classmates: Kayla because of the religion he professes, Kenny because of his poverty. The unrequited Butters often suffers from Cartman's antics. \ N Conceived as the only anti-hero of the four, he has garnered more audience attention from the very first season than the remaining three. In particular, he is a favorite character in the series of one of the creators of the two shows - Matt Stone. Over time, Cartman turned into a "pusher" of the show, but also remarkable intelligence, surpassing the capabilities of an ordinary fourth grader. "As, for example, it happened to show the episode" Cartoon Wars "of the 10th season, when the heroes of the series were given a choice - the series" Family Guy ", where the Muslim prophet Muhammad is ridiculed, and to receive a wave of terror throughout the country, or simply to ban the scandalous episode to show. It was Cartman who was the first to voice the common sense that it is useless to mock the faith and image of people unlike you, even for the sake of high TV ratings. However, towards the end of the episode, it is discharged that Cartman simply hates "Family Guy" and used a plausible excuse to get them banned [2]. \ N Cartman has the following weaknesses: cheese pads, KFC fried chicken skins, Mel Gibson, the Third Reich, game consoles, anything Apple-related, and ham [3]. \ N Eric Cartman's birthday is July 1st. House number of Cartman is 28201. \ nAppearance and physical characteristics \ nCartman is obese. One of the reasons for being overweight is that he eats a lot (his favorite foods are cheese pads, quaternary cookies, chipotle, fried chicken and chocolate pistols). Cartman has a double chin. He is often teased as "fat" (as well as "fatty bass", "fattrest"). \ NDespite his aggressive nature and weight advantage, Cartman does not fight very well (unless, of course, he does not manage to use some dishonest technique). In several episodes, he starts a fight with Kyle, but mostly Kyle prevails. In the episode "The Breast Cancer Show," he fights Wendy Testaburger, where she beat him to blood. In episode 1302 "Raccoon" Eric used the ability to jump from roof to roof and climb windows. \ N Typically, Cartman wears a blue hat with a yellow pompom, a red jacket, yellow mittens, and brown pants. He wears a white jersey under his jacket, although it is rarely seen. Episodes 102 "Weight Gain 4000" and 216 "Merry Christmas Charlie Manson!" (Eng. Merry Christmas, Charlie Manson!) Cartman wore a pink T-shirt with the words "Beefcake" (Russian. Big Man). He has brown hair. \ NKartman is left-handed. \ NPersonality \ nCartman's personality has changed markedly over the course of the series. He has always remained selfish and intolerant, but in the early episodes, he was just a very ill-mannered child. Later, he is violent, aggressive and cunning. His ability to manipulate people and his intellect in general developed widely. He respects power immensely, but does not always respect those to whom it belongs. \ NNazism \ nKartman is an ardent and respected Nazi and, accordingly, an anti-Semite. His desire to humiliate Kyle, that he is a Jew, sometimes demonstrates the scale of mania. \ N Cartman's idol Mel Gibson, because this Mel Gibson directed The Passion of the Christ, which confirmed Eric's anti-Semitic ideas. With the events of this film, Cartman repeatedly rebukes Kyle. Favorite - "You are a liquid parhaty phrase!" In episode 1305, Cartman bragged about how he defeated an army of (invented by him) "Zhidroids" - combat robots, in appearance they clearly guessed the features of stereotypical Jews.
Eric's other idol is the Third Reich. This is supported by Cartman's repeated sympathy for the Nazis and Adolf Hitler. Eric knows German [⇨]. Perhaps, the consonance of the name of Eric Cartman with the name of the German ace of the Second World War, Erich Hartmann, is not accidental.
Oddities
According to numerous hints, Cartman suffers from a number of serious mental disorders.
In particular, he cannot help singing the entire song "Come Sail Away" by the group "Styx" if someone nearby starts singing it, which may be one of the symptoms of obsessions. He suffers from an inferiority complex and for self-affirmation sometimes hits his cat, shouting at the same time: "Bad kitty, bad!" (also this phrase is sometimes extended to his other victims). However, in the series "Impressive Buffers", he is imbued with unexpected pity for the cats of the whole city when they are officially banned. Sometimes Cartman has a tea party with the dolls, pretending they tell him how cool he is. During the games, he once recreated a scene from the movie "The Silence of the Lambs" - he put a doll in a well and lowered her food in a basket. In SHIKARN-O, it is revealed that Butters has a tape of Cartman, dressed in women's clothing and acting like Britney Spears, dancing around a cardboard figure of Justin Timberlake and singing "Lick My Body!" It is known that Cartman, despite his age, sometimes pees in bed
As soon as Cartman closes his eyes, various visions visit him. In the episode "Helen Keller! The Musical ”demonstrates that in these moments Eric sees eerie scenes of murder and destruction every time, to which he is already accustomed (he says that he sees“ this garbage ”every time he closes his eyes). However, in the episode "Cartman's Amazing Gift," it is shown that Cartman also often sees sweets or various tasty dishes.
As a rule, Cartman is aware of what is happening around him, but he has no idea about some quite elementary things. For example, he was convinced that dolphins lived in an igloo. In addition, Cartman periodically comes up with crazy plans, some of which work, creating a humorous effect. In I Love Country, instead of reading a textbook, Cartman records documentaries about the American Revolution in TiVo, plunges him into the bathtub, and sits there himself. As a result of an electric shock, he ends up in 1776, where he meets the founding fathers.
Also, Cartman really wants to be an adult, or at least more mature than his friends. For example, in the episode "Scott Tenorman Must Die," he buys pubic hair from a high school student to show off to his friends, not knowing that when you grow up, it grows on its own.
Throughout many episodes, Cartman has pursued his main goal in life - to make $ 10 million. To do this, he invented his own religion, was engaged in the trade of milk teeth and created his own boy group called "Fingerbang" (Fingertrach) without knowing what the word really means. Cartman was even called "a financial genius who invented a new strategy" when he bought an amusement park for himself and did not let anyone in (506). As a result, people began to be drawn there so much that he was able to earn a lot of money, which he lost mediocrely later.
Cartman loves to win controversy (especially from Kyle) and prove his superiority. When he has nothing to argue, he says: "Fuck you guys, I'm going home!" (original: “Screw you guys, I’m going home!”), and leaves, not allowing the argument to continue.
Cartman (as well as his voice actor Trey Parker) hates hippies fiercely, he constantly dreams of them, which makes him mutter in his sleep. When the hippies began to pose a real danger to South Park, he saved the city because he was more aware of it than anyone else.
In episode 1302, Cartman decides to become a mysterious superhero who "saves" the city from crime - for example, he disperses a couple in love, mistaking them for a rapist and a victim. As soon as Cartman has a rival, he tries with all his might to remove him from his path, which in the end Eric succeeds - the enemy surrenders to the police.
As it turns out, Cartman has long dreamed of being a pirate, and episode 1307 is tied to this.
In episode 1213, Cartman tried to commit suicide.
Episode 1607 reveals that Cartman brings homosexual couples together by locking them in the men's locker room and sees Eric the Cupid (hallucination).
Homosexual behavior
At least twice, Cartman has fallen into the hands of pedophiles. In the episode "Cartman Joins NAMBLA," he joins the North American Boylover Association in search of adult friends. As a result, he and his friends were forced to flee from the crowd of excited men. In the episode "The Simpsons Already Have It," Cartman discovers that as a result of exposure to sperm, the crustaceans Artemia salina form a civilization and begin to behave like humans. On the advice of his mother, he goes to a sperm bank, then pours it into an aquarium, and tells friends that he got some of the sperm from a man named Ralph. He brags that he didn't pay Ralph anything for the sperm, but "just closed his eyes and sucked it out of the tube." This list also includes the case at the very end of the episode "Kindergarten", when, noticing Cartman's buttocks painted under a woman's breast, a group of young hooligans, previously indirectly seen for masturbation, carry him half-naked into the bushes. Also in the episode "Cow Days" Cartman considers himself a Vietnamese prostitute and reminds that he was "spanked" by Leonardo DiCaprio. And in the episode "Fat Ass and Dumb Head" his hand, considering itself Jennifer Lopez, gives a blowjob to Ben Affleck. In Cartman Sucks, Eric takes Butters' penis in his mouth while he sleeps and takes a photo with the certainty that it will make Butters gay. In The Jeffersons, Cartman and Jefferson (Michael Jackson) tried to kiss (in fact, it was Stan's nightmare).
Throughout the "Imaginationland" trilogy, Cartman gets Kyle to suck his balls (that is, verbatim suck my balls); his goal is to suck eggs in a suit (he is dressed by the sultan, king or pope), while preserving photos and video evidence of what happened. In the end, Eric confines himself to the spectacle of his imaginary Kyle sucking balls from his imaginary himself.
In a number of episodes ("Mexican sighting frog from southern Sri Lanka", "Cow Days", "Tooth for a Tooth Fairy 2000", "Osama bin Laden has smelly pants", "SHIKARN-O", "Kurolyub", " WTF "," Dancing with the Smurfs "," Butters' Eggs ") Cartman dressed in women's clothes. In the episode "Neighbors Come", Kyle explains to Token why they are bullying Cartman and says, "Because he is a sadist and a fagot." However, the guys used this swear word, most likely, in a different context, as it was later shown in the series “Word on the letter“ P ””. It is also known that in the episode "Le Petit Tourette" he said that he and his cousin touched each other with members. At the end of the sixteenth episode of "Tweek + Craig" of the nineteenth season, Eric masturbates in the toilet while sitting on the toilet, imagining that he is being raped by his imaginary alter-ego Eric-Cupid (Cupid-Me), while receiving obvious pleasure.
Diseases
For a long time, Cartman lived with a kidney problem, due to which "milk" poured out of his nose while laughing, even if he had not drunk it before. Ultimately, this kidney was transplanted to the dying Kyle. Also, in the episode "Problem with the Glands," Cartman falls ill with AIDS and, together with Kyle, finds a cure for the disease, grinding up $ 180,000 and injecting it into himself and Kyle intravenously. In Episode 303, it is mentioned that Eric has problems with peripheral vision, which were eventually resolved by an eye transplant for the murdered Kenny. In episode 1108, Cartman tells everyone that he contracted Turrett's syndrome and is enjoying it, since now he can swear and say whatever he wants without any negative consequences for himself. However, he soon really lost the ability to control himself.
Talents
Oratorical skills
Very often Eric is able to lead a huge number of people for his own benefit. Thus, in the episode "The Passion of the Jews" he forces almost all of South Park to unite against the Jews, under the guise of a march in favor of Mel Gibson's film The Passion of the Christ. And in the episode "Red Children" he gathers around himself children with red hair to commit the mass murder of non-redheads. In the episode "The Scarlet Sign of Fun" of the cosplay, General Lee, together with southerners-reenactors, captures the South of America and almost forces the president to recognize the independence of the southern states. In the episodes "Do the mentally retarded go to hell?" and "Maybe" he started his own church. In "Fat Beard," Cartman brings together almost all Somali pirates under his command. In the episode "Kenny Dies," Eric gives a touching speech and sings the song "Heat of the Moment" in front of Congress to be allowed for stem cell research; touched, all the congressmen pick up the song and give such permission.
Musical ability
Several times over the series, Cartman has achieved significant success in music. He first tried his hand at the music business in the episode "Something You Can Do With Your Finger," where he started a boy band; however, this group performed only once and was not very successful. Later, in the episode "Fat Ass and Dumb Head", Cartman's "revived" hand, which pretends to be Jennifer Lopez, records the successful single «Taco-Flavoured Kisses», causing the envy of the real Jennifer Lopez. In the episode "Heavy Christian Rock" Cartman, along with Butters and Token, creates a Christian rock band (Eric plays the keyboard and sings). Cartman writes a number of "Christian" songs, reworking old love songs and substituting "Jesus" for "baby" or "beloved". Among his songs are "The Body of Christ" and "I'll Fall on My Knees and Start to Satisfy Jesus." The group (called "Faith + 1", MTV translates it as "Children of Faith") is a huge success; however, Cartman spoils everything during the 1 millionth sales celebration after learning that their album could not go platinum. He begins to swear dirty, sending everyone in a row.
In addition, from the episode "Chinpokomon" it is known that Cartman can play a little guitar, in the episode "Jacobosaurus" he sings the mocking song "I Hate You Guys" on the harmonica. In Something About How Wall-Mart Came, Cartman plays a pitiful tune on a Wall Mart-bought violin, after which Kyle breaks the violin. In episode 11 of season 13, after being sent to a Japanese prison, he takes out a harmonica and begins to play a stereotypical melody. In the same episode, together with Kyle and Kenny, he plays in the Rock Band and sings the song “Poker face” quite well.
Knowledge of German
Eric Cartman speaks German - this is seen in episode 804 "The Passion of the Jew", where Eric shouted quotes from Hitler's speeches in German, and in episode 1502 "Funnybot", where Cartman in German, he tried to negotiate with the German government, who seized the school gym, to take Kyle as ransom, appealing to the fact that Kyle (a Jew by nationality) is, according to Eric, the "favorite" nation of the Germans.
Manipulation
In the CTST series, after three days of upbringing, Cartman forced the TV nanny to eat his excrement.
Relationship
A family
Leanne Cartman with a plate of cookies
Cartman's mom, Leanne is of average height for South Park women. She has brown hair and wears a light blue sweater and red pants; Leanne has a very soft, gentle voice. Liane Cartman is a nympho and prostitute who is filming for German porn sites. This fact is first confirmed in the first season of the series - Kyle shows Eric the magazine "Whores-Drug Addicts", on the cover of which Cartman's mother is depicted (107). In addition, Leanne has starred in a German scat film (South Park: Big, Long and Uncut) and amateur BDSM porn starring Mr. Mackey. She easily enters into sexual relations with strangers, guests, or call-up workers. Leanne got her name from Trey Parker's ex-fiancee; he found her with another and as a result decided to give her name to a woman with an extremely promiscuous sex life [4].
Cartman's mom completely spoiled her son, which explains many of his negative traits. In the episode "TsTST" Liane briefly stops pampering Eric, and soon he becomes kinder, begins to study better and loses weight. However, in the end, the mother herself returns her son to his original state, because she understands that if he is a normal son, he will cease to be her only friend.
On the other hand, in the episode "Merry Christmas Charlie Manson!" it is shown that most of Cartman's relatives have the same character as his, and, perhaps, it is all about genes. Most of his relatives are not particularly fond of Cartman; for example, the only purpose of communicating with his grandmother for him is to receive gifts (although she, dying, bequeaths him a million dollars).
In the episode "Cartman's Mom is Still a Dirty Whore", it is stated that Liane Cartman is hermaphrodite and is Eric's biological father (in fact, this is not so). This is very depressing for Eric: for example, in episode 1108 it is mentioned that because of this he sometimes cries at night, and, not yet knowing that his mother is his father, he was indignant that she slept with other men "on my father's bed." ...
In episode 1405, it turns out that Eric was deceived and Liane Cartman is still a mother, he has a father. In the episode "201" it is revealed that his father was one of the "Denver Broncos" players - Scott Tenorman's father Jack Tenorman, who died with his wife as a result of Eric's cunning operation, who did it in order to take revenge on Scott (501).
Friends
Although Cartman belongs to the company of four main characters, along with Stan, Kyle and Kenny, he often openly opposes them, confesses to them in hatred (or they confess to hate him). He often argues with friends, and when he runs out of arguments, he simply says, "Fuck you, I'm going home." Friends dislike Cartman for his dirty behavior. One of the main goals of all his actions is to achieve superiority over his friends. In "Fervent Catholic Love," Cartman wins Kyle's wager. Cartman begins to tease Kyle, but Kyle admits he lost and congratulates Cartman. Cartman immediately loses the pleasure of winning and stops humiliating Kyle. But despite all the odds, Eric needs the company of Stan, Kyle and Kenny, as well as Butters, who forgives him even the dirtiest bullying. In addition, the main characters, finding themselves in a difficult situation, often turn to Cartman for help as the most sophisticated and resourceful. Once (in an episode of Best Friends Forever), Cartman called Kenny his best friend, but in the same episode he very clearly demonstrated that he has much more important interests than the health of friends.
Girls
Eric constantly talks about his dismissive attitude towards the opposite sex (he states that the main female occupation should be cooking food for him and washing his clothes). However, sometimes he lacks female attention. In "The Chef Loses His Patience," Cartman makes a good impression on Wendy Testaburger (to her horror). Wendy can't think of anything else and ends up kissing Cartman in front of the whole town. After that, her interest in Eric fades away. In the last scene of the episode, Wendy says she's glad it's over; Cartman agrees and tries to laugh, although he is noticeably not happy at all. Wendy runs off to Stan, while Cartman is left all alone and sighs sadly. In episode 111, along with the entire male half of the class, falls in love with teacher Miss Helen. In episode 610, Cartman, along with all the boys in the class, falls in love with Bibi. In episode 907, Eric shows his knowledge of relationships with girls and helps Jimmy seduce a classmate with advice. In Le Petit Tourette, Cartman accidentally admits that he is secretly in love with Petty Nelson and wants to kiss her. To which Petty, grimacing, says: "Ugh ..." In season 20, starting with the third episode, "The Damned" begins to meet with Heidi Turner, because they both became outcasts in society due to the complete lack of gadgets. But over time, Eric's bad influence makes her a complete copy of him and in episode 2110 she leaves him.
Frog Clyde
Clyde the frog drinking tea from a cup
Clyde Frog is Eric Cartman's favorite toy. Outwardly, Clyde the Frog closely resembles Kermit the Frog, a puppet character in Sesame Street and The Muppet Show. It is also likely that Clyde the Frog is based on the protagonist of the 1970s children's educational program The Clyde Frog Show. Sometimes Cartman also refers to Clyde as "Artemus Clyde Frog" - this happens when he plays "Wild Wild West" in the episode "Cat Orgy" and is an allusion to the name of the character Artemus Gordon. In episode 1201, Kyle rips off the frog's head.
Cartman has a very close relationship with Clyde the Frog. He cries when he needs to say goodbye to him and considers him his best toy. We can say that Clyde the Frog, although he is not animate, is Eric's closest friend, to whom he shows warmer feelings than to all his friends. Perhaps such a close relationship with a toy is the result and the result of mental problems and Eric's difficult relationships with other children and people in general.
In episode 1512, Clyde the Frog is killed along with the rest of his toy buddies. At first, everyone thinks that this is the work of fifth graders, but then it turns out that Cartman himself created a terrible series of "murders", similar to a movie thriller. He did it, oddly enough, because Kyle said that Eric needed to grow up and get rid of his toys (and this is almost the only time Cartman listened to Kyle's advice).
Significance and recognition
According to a 1999 survey conducted among children by NatWest, Cartman was ranked first as the most popular fictional or real person to follow. He surpassed stars such as David Beckham and Britney Spears in polls.
The Independent columnist Nick Lezard called Cartman "a hero of our time" and described him as follows:
A fat, dysfunctional, foul-mouthed bummer. Sly, cunning, despising all noble thoughts and deeds, brazenly behaving with his condescending mother.